Agenda

1 - Setup the github {Repository} by cloning it
a) New Environment
b) Decide Mini Project structure - setup.py
c) Build a package

README file - steps, descriptions

Setup file ? - 

1️⃣ What is a Python package?

A package is basically:

A folder containing Python code that can be imported and reused in other projects.

Usually contains:

Python files (.py) → functions, classes, etc.

An __init__.py file (can be empty) → tells Python “this folder is a package”

2️⃣ Why use a package?

To organize your code

To reuse code in multiple projects

To share code with others

What is setup.py?

It’s a small Python file that tells Python how to install your project.

Think of it as an instruction sheet for pip.

Why you need it

So you can run your project anywhere after installing it:

pip install .


So pip knows what other packages your project needs (like pandas, numpy).

So you can share your project with others easily.

Components: Is a package

It’s a folder where you keep reusable, modular, independent pieces of code — not your main script,
 but the building blocks of your project.

Instead of writing everything inside app.py or main.py, 
you split your project into multiple logical pieces.

components/
    data_ingestion.py
    data_transformation.py
    model_trainer.py
    model_evaluation.py
Each file does one job, which makes your project cleaner.

2️⃣ To reuse code easily
If different projects need the same component (like a preprocessing function), you can simply import it:

python
Copy code
from components.data_transformation import DataTransformation
No rewriting, no duplicate code.

Create the py files in components, and under src create a pipeline folder

Why logger is important?

Shows what step your pipeline is currently running
Helps debug when something goes wrong
Saves logs to a file (logs/app.log)
Used in production ML systems

Exception:

To catch errors in a clean and readable way, and provide better debugging information.

Utils:
To store common reusable functions that are used across components.

Examples:
save model
load model
read YAML file
evaluate model
save numpy or pickle files


